_sites/buildings/santa_croce/santa_croce.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Santa Croce
category:
dates: ca. 1250 -
image: Santa_Croce.gif
status:
---
Built in the middle of the fourteenth century, the Oratory of the Misericordia (as it was then known) has endured expansions, fires, renovations, a merger, and more to become the elegant structure that stands on the Piazza del Duomo today. Read more about the structure's tumultous history here. Explore the headquarters of one of the city's most prominent charities, the Confraternity of the Misericordia, later merged with that of the Bigallo, and see the art that it commissioned to assert its place in Florentine society.

1250
1295-1310
1310-1325
1325-1341
1341-1365
1365-1400

<span class="image main">
  <img src="/assets/images/thumbnail_CrocePlan.jpg" usemap="#image-map">
</span>

<map name="image-map">
    <area alt="Gaddi" title="Gaddi" href="/people/taddeo-gaddi.html" coords="215,121,215,196,224,214,292,213,302,201,297,122,276,99,240,99" shape="poly">
    <area alt="Banco" title="Banco" href="/people/maso-di-banco.html" coords="131,614,197,527" shape="rect">
</map>

<!-- more -->

<!--

{% assign texts = site.texts | where:"building", "bigallo" %}
<div class="resourcelist" width="100%">
{% for text in texts %}
<a href="{{ text.url | absolute_url }}">| {{ text.title }} |</a>
{% endfor %}
</div>

-->

Commit message:

Added skeleton for alt_text -WG

_sites/buildings/santa_croce/santa_croce.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Santa Croce
category:
dates: ca. 1250 -
image: Santa_Croce.gif
alt_text: This gif is a timelapse of Santa Croce's development
status:
---

Images courtesy of Erik Gustafson

Built in the middle of the fourteenth century, the Oratory of the Misericordia (as it was then known) has endured expansions, fires, renovations, a merger, and more to become the elegant structure that stands on the Piazza del Duomo today. Read more about the structure's tumultous history here. Explore the headquarters of one of the city's most prominent charities, the Confraternity of the Misericordia, later merged with that of the Bigallo, and see the art that it commissioned to assert its place in Florentine society.

1250
1295-1310
1310-1325
1325-1341
1341-1365
1365-1400

<span class="image main">
  <img src="/assets/images/thumbnail_CrocePlan.jpg" usemap="#image-map">
</span>

<map name="image-map">
    <area alt="Gaddi" title="Gaddi" href="/people/taddeo-gaddi.html" coords="215,121,215,196,224,214,292,213,302,201,297,122,276,99,240,99" shape="poly">
    <area alt="Banco" title="Banco" href="/people/maso-di-banco.html" coords="131,614,197,527" shape="rect">
</map>

<!-- more -->

<!--

{% assign texts = site.texts | where:"building", "bigallo" %}
<div class="resourcelist" width="100%">
{% for text in texts %}
<a href="{{ text.url | absolute_url }}">| {{ text.title }} |</a>
{% endfor %}
</div>

-->
