affiliations.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Affilitations
---

## Affiliations/Partner Universities

Washington and Lee University

University of Chicago

<!--University of Toronto-->

## Organizations

[DH @ WLU](https://digitalhumanities.wlu.edu/)

[Mellon Foundation](https://mellon.org/)

[Guild of the Dome](http://www.guildofthedome.com/)

## An Incredible Thank You to the Following:

Opera del Duomo and Mons. Timothy Verdon

Kunsthistorisches Instituit and Dr. Alessandro Nova

Florence Office of Tourism and Dott. Andrea Giordani

Clara Marinelli of the Frilli Gallery

Frate Bernardo and the brothers of S. Miniato al Monte

Dott.ssa Paola D’Agostino

Dott.ssa Claudia Timossi

Dott. Giuseppe De Micheli

Dott. Andrea Giordani

Dott.essa Carlatta Viviano

## Related and Similar Projects

[DECIMA](https://decima-map.net/) - University of Toronto

[Cenobium](https://www.khi.fi.it/4824501/cenobium) - Kunsthistorisches Florenz

[Map of Early Modern London](https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/) - University of Victoria

[Factum Arte](http://www.factum-arte.com/) - Madrid

[San Pier Maggiore](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZUXa1nDtOB0) - Cambridge

[Cyark](http://www.cyark.org/)

[The Medici Project](http://www.medici.org/)

Commit message:

Added additional Thank You for Villa I Tatti -WG

affiliations.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Affiliations
---

## Affiliations/Partner Universities

Washington and Lee University

University of Chicago

<!--University of Toronto-->

## Organizations

[DH @ WLU](https://digitalhumanities.wlu.edu/)

[Mellon Foundation](https://mellon.org/)

[Guild of the Dome](http://www.guildofthedome.com/)

## Thank You to the Following:

Opera del Duomo and Mons. Timothy Verdon

Kunsthistorisches Instituit and Dr. Alessandro Nova

Villa I Tatti, the Harvard Center for Italian Renaissance Studies and Dr. Alina Payne

Florence Office of Tourism and Dott. Andrea Giordani

Clara Marinelli of the Frilli Gallery

Frate Bernardo and the brothers of S. Miniato al Monte

Dott.ssa Paola D’Agostino

Dott.ssa Claudia Timossi

Dott. Giuseppe De Micheli

Dott. Andrea Giordani

Dott.essa Carlatta Viviano

## Related and Similar Projects

[DECIMA](https://decima-map.net/) - University of Toronto

[Cenobium](https://www.khi.fi.it/4824501/cenobium) - Kunsthistorisches Florenz

[Map of Early Modern London](https://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/) - University of Victoria

[Factum Arte](http://www.factum-arte.com/) - Madrid

[San Pier Maggiore](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZUXa1nDtOB0) - Cambridge

[Cyark](http://www.cyark.org/)

[The Medici Project](http://www.medici.org/)
