---
layout: page
title: Going Out with a Bang
image: Summer2019_6.jpg
tags:
alt_text: Some of the fireworks we saw exploding over San Miniato.
---
June 26th, 2019

All signs point to us going out with a bang this week! It’s difficult to believe we only have two or three more days of work left to do in Florence - the trip really has flown by. This last weekend was a long one, capped by the festival for the city’s patron saint, San Giovanni - Alice and I were lucky enough to get perfect seats along the walls lining the Arno to watch the fireworks display above San Miniato. <!-- more -->

Of course, Tuesday meant getting back to work, and Alice and I were whisked away by our friend Gail to Siena’s Palazzo Pubblico to improve our models of some of those frescoes. Siena is a fascinating city, and much of its architecture remains unchanged compared to Florence’s city center; they were also preparing for their own festival, the Palio di Siena, featuring a horse race held twice a year. It’s a shame we won’t be around long enough to see it!

We returned to the Innocenti today, whose staff were kind enough to permit us to photograph and scan their archives: a large, complicated room that will certainly be difficult to model, but we’ll try regardless! Our final photographic project for tomorrow will be one of the Innocenti’s inner cloisters, one that I believe was designed by Brunelleschi! I also want to model the two terracotta medallions that are not on the façade, but instead within the museum - it could be really rewarding to see what the building would look like with all fourteen medallions returned. Our time here is almost up!
